Starting the EDA, we manually reviewed many different reviews in ‘’reviews.csv’’, to identify patterns in the reviews that were either uninformative or noisy. We found several repeating patterns that we wanted to filter out. We made detect_unwanted_reviews() which marks a review as invalid if it met any of the criteria.

Too short review (<= 3 words) is one of them. Short reviews like ‘’I like’’ and ‘’good’’ provide minimal signal. The sentiment may seem clear, but the rating can be unpredictable, making it poor training data.

Too long words are another criterion. Reviews like aHU4DCtH2mD9rhBxdZwXPAkfhASrXQTvktLUq3hSNkcd0EMIQVfZqEE8zL4ORd45u4k7uOiOXMxnyY0tnN8lBQBSMh4gh ‘’ appears as random gibberish and gives no value to the training.

Few stopwords in a longer review (>10 words) is a criterion, such as: ‘’ bike recommend competition agency hearing…’’. Stopwords (e.g., ‘’I’’, ‘’is’’, ‘’the’’, ‘’you’’) are essential for flow and grammar in a sentence (Shishiradhikari, 2025). With this in mind, we made a list with many of the most used stopwords. We then checked if reviews longer than ten words at least contained 8% stopwords.

Lastly, reviews containing repetitive words, such as: ‘’good good good good’’. These reviews contain no meaningful information and are looked at as noise. 

After applying all filters, 2019 of the 6210 reviews (32.5%) were removed. The most dominant reason for removal was the too short reviews (76.4%). The second most popular reason was the few stopwords reviews (13.8%), followed by reviews containing repetitive words (8.8%) and lastly too long word reviews (1.0%).

The chart visualizes the sorting of the reasons for removal, marked with percentages on each of the reasons.

Before starting the data preparation, we cleaned the data in the reviews_text column. We converted the text to string to avoid any Valueerror. Then, made all the letters small, removed URL and links, kept only letters and spaces. With remove_stopwords(text), we removed stopwords in the reviews to leave the high valuated words left for the training.

The cleaned dataset is split into 80% training and 20% testing. We use stratify because the dataset is imbalanced with rating 5 dominating. With stratified splitting it will make sure the rating distribution is preserved in each set. 

The text is converted to numbers in the traditional models, logistic regression, naive bayes and random forest, using TF-IDF. This will weigh the word based on how often they appear in the reviews. We set the limit to 5000 words to reduce dimensionality. To avoid data leaked, we only fit TF-IDF on the training data.

For the LSTM model we use tokenizer. The text is converted to sequences of numbers. Each review is either padded or truncated to 100 tokens, making them the same length. This is only trained on the training data.

Finaly, we weighted the classes, because of the imbalance of ratings. Rating 2, 3 and 4 receive a higher weight, than 1 and 5. This is used on the logistic regression model to make it pay more attention to the minority classes in training. 


The models we chose for the task are Logistic Regression, Naïve Bayes, Random Forest and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). 
This is done by using sentiment analysis, with the task of figuring out whether a review is negative or positive based on the expressions in the texts (Müller & Guido, 2016, p. 325). 
To get a good linear baseline we started with Logistic Regression and Naïve Bayes models. 
Both are well suited due to them being fast and easy to interpret (Müller & Guido, 2016, p. 127). 
Random Forest on the other hand is a non-linear ensemble model that trains different trees before merging them together and giving a result based on the decision trees (Géron, 2019, p. 173). 
Long Short-Term Memory is an even more complex deep learning method designed for sequential data (Hochreiter & Schmidhuber, 1997). 
Due to the sequential data the LSTM model can recognise the order of the words, which separates it from the other three models. 
Having four different models grants us the opportunity to review how different methods deliver different or similar results. 



A Logistic Regression model adds up negative and positive words to create an overall polarity. 
Linear models like Logistic Regression are well suited for the type of text data we see in the reviews.csv dataset (Müller & Guido, 2016, p. 332). 
To limit the risk of overfitting we used L2 regularization with the default parameter C=1.0, which ensures the coefficients don’t get too large (Géron, 2019, p. 27). 
To ensure the model converges on the input we used max_iter=1000. In turn this prevents the model from memorizing the training data. 
Due to the data being so imbalanced the predicted results are mainly 1 and 5, with an accuracy of 64%. 



A Random Forest model creates a more robust classifier by combining different trained decision trees (Géron, 2019, p. 173). 
To gather more similar results and stable predictions we set the n_estimators=200 instead of a lower number, because higher numbers cause smoother boundaries (Müller & Guido, 2016, p. 84-85). 
To further reduce the danger of overfitting the model we set the parameter of max_depth=30 while allowing the trees to model the word interactions. 
Despite these measures the model only achieves a 63% accuracy with predictions almost solely in the classes 1 and 5. 
This matches what Müller and Guido state about Random Forest performing poorly on high-dimensional sparse text data (Müller & Guido, 2016, p. 128).